GWEN IFILL: Good
evening. I'm Gwen Ifill.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And
I'm Judy Woodruff.
GWEN IFILL: On the "NewsHour"
tonight: the immigration divide.
Republican presidential
candidates debate what they
would do, and they don't always
agree.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Also ahead this
Wednesday: another hit for the
companies behind fantasy
sports. New York state bans
what it calls illegal gambling.
GWEN IFILL: And we travel to the
country of Georgia to stand at
the crossroads of human
history.
PAUL SALOPEK, Fellow, National
Geographic: I think we're
standing on one of the oldest
boneyards in the world. Dmanisi,
in particular, is 1.8 million
years old.
JUDY WOODRUFF: All that and more
on tonight's "PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
JUDY WOODRUFF: It began as
Armistice Day, marking the end
of World War I. Now it's
commemorated
as Veterans Day, honoring all
those who have worn the uniform
of the United States, living
and dead.
Today, the annual observances
were mixed in with new pledges
of reform. It was a day for
keeping with traditions,
including the president laying a
wreath at the Tomb of the
Unknowns
in Arlington National Cemetery.
Afterward, Mr. Obama used the
occasion to call for more
progress on speeding up medical
services and disability
claims for military veterans.
BARACK OBAMA, President of the
United States: If tomorrow,
after the parades and the
ceremonies,
we roll up the banners and sweep
the veterans halls and go back
to our daily lives forgetting
the bond between the service of
our veterans and our obligations
as citizens, then we will
be doing a profound disservice
to our veterans and to the very
cause for which they serve.
JUDY WOODRUFF: At the World War
II Memorial on the National
Mall, former Republican Senator
and Army veteran Bob Dole paid
his own tribute to those who've
served.
BOB DOLE, Former U.S. Senator:
It's a day to remember all the
sacrifices made in American
history by people who stood
up for their country.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And across the
Atlantic, Britain observed
Remembrance Day with moments of
silence
and other somber ceremonies,
while other European nations
marked it as Armistice Day,
honoring
the millions who lost their
lives during the First World
War.
Elsewhere, NATO troops in
Afghanistan held observances to
pay tribute to their fallen
comrades.
PADRE COLIN MACLEOD, Chaplain:
So many have lost their lives.
And it would be unforgivable
of us to forget.
JUDY WOODRUFF: That sentiment
also resonated at Australia's
rain-soaked remembrance ceremony
in Canberra with Britain's
Prince Charles and his wife in
attendance.
GWEN IFILL: In Myanmar today,
the military-backed government
promised a peaceful transition,
as the democratic opposition
headed toward a sweeping
election victory. The party led
by Aung San Suu Kyi has won the
overwhelming majority of
Parliament races decided since
Sunday's vote. Her party won a
similar triumph in 1990, but the
military refused to give
way.
JUDY WOODRUFF: At least 10,000
people marched in Afghanistan's
capital today, protesting
the beheading of seven Shiite
Hazaras. Their bodies were found
in Zabul province on Saturday.
One of the victims was a child.
Today, angry demonstrators
carried the coffins through
Kabul, and some tried to force
their
way into the presidential
palace. Police opened fire,
wounding at least 10 people.
And President Ashraf
Ghani called for calm.
ASHRAF GHANI, President of
Afghanistan (through
translator): We are committed to
taking revenge
for our countrymen's blood. In
this way, we will not spare any
effort. But you have to
remember that anything can
happen if we don't control our
feelings. We should avoid
reactions
that could result in anarchy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Protesters
demanded that President Ghani
step down if he can't ensure
security.
GWEN IFILL: The European Union
pressed African leaders today to
help curb the flow of migrants.
The two sides met on Malta,
where the Europeans offered
incentives, as we hear from
Jonathan
Rugman of Independent
Television News.
JONATHAN RUGMAN: Emerging from a
building which once housed
medieval knights tasked
with protecting the holy land, a
new champions league, the E.U.'s
leaders still finding their
way in the dark, though, facing
an unprecedented wave of
migration and trying to square
the
circle of helping the desperate
and protecting themselves.
Their focus tonight is not
Syria, but Africa, with 1.8
billion euros now at the ready
to
buy the cooperation of African
leaders, some of it to make sure
migrants turned down for
asylum really do go home.
Africans account for 14 percent
of this year's arrival. But it's
much further east off Turkey
that the packed boats are still
coming, 6,000 people reaching
Greece every day. It's thought
a trafficker dived off this
dinghy this morning, no doubt
hoping to cash in on the next.
Back in Malta, you need a ladder
to reach the uppermost files of
asylum seekers. And
the more new arrivals, the more
the tide is beginning to turn,
many in Germany are ruing
the day Angela Merkel flung her
country's door wide open, the
Greeks not prepared to
take back those who arrived
there first, and African leaders
demanding more visas so Africans
can visit Europe legally, rather
than risking their lives to get
here instead.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Back in this
country, a Missouri man is in
jail, suspected of posting
online
threats against blacks at the
University of Missouri at
Columbia; 19-year-old Hunter
Park
was arrested at a separate
campus. He had allegedly said he
planned to open fire today
in Columbia.
Earlier this week, protests over
racial tensions led the
university system's president to
resign.
Police are still investigating
other threats and have stepped
up patrols.
GWEN IFILL: A Texas grand jury
has indicted 106 bikers arrested
in last may's deadly gang
shoot-out in Waco. Nine people
died in the confrontation
between rival motorcycle clubs.
Those indicted face charges of
organized criminal gang
activity. The grand jury is
still considering
charges against
another 71 bikers.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And on Wall
Street, the Dow Jones industrial
average lost 56 points to
close back near 17700. The
Nasdaq fell 16 points, and the
S&P 500 dropped six.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
the debate heats up over illegal
immigration; New York
cracks down on fantasy sports;
Kareem Abdul-Jabbar's on
Sherlock Holmes' older brother,
and much
more.
GWEN IFILL: Republicans eager to
either hold on to or steal the
spotlight took to the stage
in Milwaukee last night, as the
debate shifted from personality
to policy.
The candidates used their fourth
face-off to better define their
differences.
The topics ranged from
the economy and taxes.
SEN. RAND PAUL (R-KY),
Presidential Candidate: I want a
government really, really small,
so small you can barely see it.
QUESTION: You wouldn't favor
breaking up the big banks? You
think they're big enough,
they're
OK as they are, as
big as they are?
BEN CARSON (R), Presidential
Candidate: I would have policies
that wouldn't allow that
to occur.
GWEN IFILL: To
international affairs.
SEN. MARCO RUBIO (R-FL),
Presidential Candidate: I know
that Rand is a committed
isolationist.
I'm not. I believe the world is
a stronger and a better place
when the United States
is the strongest military
power in the world.
SEN. RAND PAUL: Yeah, but,
Marco, Marco, how is it
conservative, how is it
conservative
to add a trillion-dollar
expenditure for the federal
government that you're not
paying
for?
DONALD TRUMP (R), Presidential
Candidate: We have to get smart.
We can't continue to
be the policeman of the world.
JEB BUSH (R), Presidential
Candidate: Donald's wrong on
this. He is absolutely wrong on
this.
We're not going to be the
world's policeman, but we sure
as heck better be the world's
leader.
GWEN IFILL: And they targeted
the Democrat they clearly expect
to face next year.
CARLY FIORINA (R), Presidential
Candidate: We must beat Hillary
Clinton. Carly Fiorina
can beat Hillary Clinton. I
will beat Hillary Clinton.
GWEN IFILL: But the biggest
chasm of policy difference was
immigration. Trump once again
argued for building a wall
between the U.S. and Mexico, and
deporting 11 million immigrants
in the country illegally.
DONALD TRUMP: Dwight Eisenhower,
good president, great president,
moved a 1.5 million illegal
immigrants out of this country,
moved them just beyond the
border. They came back. Moved
them way south. They never came
back. They moved a 1.5 million
people out. We have no
choice.
GWEN IFILL: But others
on stage objected.
GOV. JOHN KASICH (R-OH),
Presidential Candidate: But for
the 11 million people, come on,
folks.
We all know you can't pick them
up and ship them across, back
across the border. It's
a silly argument. It is
not an adult argument.
JEB BUSH: It's not embracing
American values. And it would
tear communities apart. And it
would send a signal that we're
not the kind of country that I
know America is.
(CHEERING AND APPLAUSE)
GWEN IFILL: Bush and Kasich
didn't say what they would do
instead, but Ted Cruz said
anything
short of deportation
would hurt the country.
SEN. TED CRUZ (R-TX),
Presidential Candidate: If
Republicans join Democrats as
the party
of amnesty, we will lose. I
understand that when the
mainstream media covers
immigration,
it doesn't often see it as an
economic issue. But I can tell
you, for millions of Americans
at home watching this, it is a
very personal economic issue.
GWEN IFILL: Rubio stayed out of
last night's fray, but weighed
in this morning on the Obama
administration plan known as
DACA that would delay
deportation proceedings for
undocumented
immigrants whose children
were born in the U.S.
MARCO RUBIO: I do not support
DACA. It's unconstitutional;
it's the wrong way to do this,
and, quite
frankly, we need to begin to
enforce our immigration laws in
this country or we don't have
immigration
laws.
GWEN IFILL: Economics and the
politics of immigration are
expected to remain front and
center throughout
the campaign year.
For more on the growing
immigration policy divide, I'm
joined by Marielena Hincapie,
executive director of the
National Immigration Law Center
Immigrant Justice Fund, and Josh
Blackman, an associate professor
at the South Texas College of
Law.
Marielena Hincapie, let me ask
-- start by asking you what
leaped out at you in watching
that debate, especially the
part, the immigration debate
last night?
MARIELENA HINCAPIE, Executive
Director, National Immigration
Law Center: Thank you, Gwen.
I, frankly, was initially
shocked at what I was starting
to hear from Trump, and then
deeply, deeply troubled. It was
surreal. I think many viewers
may not realize that when
Donald Trump was invoking
President Eisenhower's
immigration plan that resulted
in the deportation
of over a million individuals,
he was actually referring to
Operation Wetback.
Operation Wetback is one of the
darkest and most shameful
periods of our immigration
history
in this country, where
immigrants from Mexico,
including U.S. citizens of
Mexican descent,
were deported. That is basically
-- historians think of it as
ethnic cleansing. That is
shocking
that in 2015 one of our
presidential candidates is
espousing that as his model for
immigration.
GWEN IFILL: Josh Blackman, as
you watched and listened to what
they were saying, what
leaped out at you?
JOSH BLACKMAN, Constitutional
Law Professor, South Texas
College of Law: So, I think
Marielena
is correct. It's physically
impossible to remove 11 million
immigrants.
But I think the correct
framework is that some sort of
reform has to be passed and that
this cannot be accomplished
through executive action, which
is what President Obama has
done.
GWEN IFILL: So, what is it that
you heard last night that
sounded like a reasonable
approach?
JOSH BLACKMAN: So, I think
Senator Rubio advanced a
proposal where immigrants who
have been
here for a while who have
families and have not gotten in
trouble, had they stayed 10
years, there will be a pathway
for some sort of way for them to
remain. And he also suggested
that certain felons would be
able to be moved primarily.
GWEN IFILL: Marielena Hincapie,
this week, the Fifth Circuit
Court of Appeals moved to
delay, to block President
Obama's plan to delay
deportation for some people who
are
not here legally. Does this --
how does this change the
landscape of the immigration
debate
or does it?
MARIELENA HINCAPIE: Well, right
now, the decision was a
devastating decision,
particularly for
the five million U.S. citizen
children whose parents would
have benefited from DACA.
And it was an expected decision,
so it doesn't quite change
things too much, in the sense
that we remain in legal status
quo, legal limbo for these
families. On the other hand,
because the Supreme Court is
likely to take this case -- and
we're very glad that the
Obama administration immediately
said that they would be
appealing -- this is a case
of national significance which
is likely to be decided just
months before the 2016 election.
So I think the issue will
continue to be front and center
and probably increase in terms
of the debates, particularly
in the general election.
GWEN IFILL: Josh Blackman, does
this help or hurt your election
year argument?
JOSH BLACKMAN: So, I think the
question is not whether the
Supreme Court will hear it,
but when the Supreme
Court will hear it.
So, Marielena is correct.
GWEN IFILL: It's definitely
going to happen?
JOSH BLACKMAN: Oh, it's
definitely going to happen.
But it will either happen in May
of 2016 or November of 2016. And
the variable is when
the court is able to grant
certiorari, when it's able to
grant review. And this is based
first on when the U.S.
government files their appeal
and second when Texas files
their response.
If the process too late, it's
very possible that this process
will be stretched and kicked
until next year, so it would not
even be argued until there's a
new president in office.
GWEN IFILL: There were as many
approaches to the immigration
debate on stage last night
as there were candidates.
I want to run through a few of
them with you, Marielena
Hincapie, starting with you.
Jeb Bush talked about fines and
talking as a way of making sure
that people stay -- obey
the law. How applicable
can that be?
MARIELENA HINCAPIE: Yes, paying
a penalty has actually been one
of the central factors
of all of the immigration reform
proposals, legislative proposals
in the past.
I think Jeb Bush is right that
that is often -- and immigrants
are ready and willing to
pay a fine to be able to stay in
the U.S. to obtain lawful status
and work lawfully
and not have that fear of
deportations and contribute even
more to our country.
GWEN IFILL: Josh Blackman, we
have heard much discussion about
the path to citizenship,
but a lot less discussion than
we used to. People like Jeb Bush
and Marco Rubio, who
used to say -- and even John
Kasich, I think, last night
suggested it -- but it's being
talked about a lot
less. Why is that?
JOSH BLACKMAN: I think one of
the factors we have to consider
is the role that President
Barack Obama's presidential
executive actions played in
chilling congressional reform.
Speaker Paul Ryan had a piece in
"USA Today" last week
effectively arguing that because
the president acts unilaterally,
it's harder to trust the
president. I think, in many
respects,
this unilateral action has made
it more difficult to actually
have some sort of comprehensive
immigration reform.
GWEN IFILL: You're saying it's
the unilateral action, not the
actual substance of the policy
itself?
JOSH BLACKMAN: Well, I think any
discussion of whether you're
actually rewarded people
perhaps who enter the country
illegally must be premised on
what President Obama has done
previously.
If in fact the president is
trying to abrogate and bypass
Congress, it makes it less
likely
that Congress will want to
work with him to move forward.
GWEN IFILL: Marielena Hincapie,
some people -- Ben Carson is one
of the people who have
suggested that perhaps a
guest-worker program might be an
approach. Is that something that
you can see happening
that is middle ground?
MARIELENA HINCAPIE: Absolutely
not, not a guest-worker program
by itself.
I think particularly for Ben
Carson and the Republican
candidates who yesterday talked
about not being in support of
the minimum wage, when we --
when they are thinking of
adding guest workers as the
solution to immigration, that
simply is going to depress wages
and
working conditions even
more for U.S. workers.
We need to ensure that the 11
million people who are here who
are already working have
a path to citizenship and that
we separately look at what are
the forms, legal channels
for people to come
in the future.
For current guest-worker
programs, they are extremely
full of exploitation, mainly
because
workers are tied to an employer
who can exploit them and unless
those individual workers,
those temporary workers have the
same rights as U.S. workers, are
able to leave that work
and take their visa, have a
portable visa, that guest-worker
programs are just not the
answer and not the solution. And
it's definitely not the solution
for the 11 million who are
here and who are working and who
have deep ties to our
communities.
GWEN IFILL: Josh Blackman, what
about the so-called dreamers?
They got their hopes up
last year with the idea that
they would be able to stay here
or they could at least apply
to stay here. Is that going to
fall apart or is that anything
that any of these Republicans
are supporting?
JOSH BLACKMAN: So, I think the
senators are opposed -- sorry --
the candidates are opposed
to DACA. That's Deferred
Action for Childhood Arrivals.
GWEN IFILL: Right.
JOSH BLACKMAN: Congress defeated
the DREAM Act and the president
went ahead and enacted
not the exact same thing, but
significant portions of it,
through executive action.
And I think in many respects,
that, too, that has chilled the
decision of whether Congress
can act. And one point I make --
I would like to make on the
timing of the Supreme Court
appeal, the Obama administration
had a chance to appeal to the
Supreme Court in May of 2016.
Their failure to do it basically
ensured that this couldn't be
decided until the earliest
of the summer before
the election.
So whether it is in fact a
priority for the Obama
administration to appeal is not
clear.
They may be content to let this
sit as a political issue and
have Senator Clinton perhaps and
the Republican candidate duke
this out. There may be political
elements here in delaying
the appeal itself.
GWEN IFILL: Briefly, where
is public opinion on this?
JOSH BLACKMAN: On?
GWEN IFILL: On this whole issue?
JOSH BLACKMAN: Well, I think for
the most part, people are
looking to have a comprehensive
reform through Congress and not
through unilateral executive
action.
GWEN IFILL: And, Marielena, one
final thought on public opinion.
MARIELENA HINCAPIE: Yes, as
Joshua said, there is a lot of
support. A majority of Americans
support both comprehensive
immigration reform through
Congress, but recent polling
actually
shows that the majority of
Americans also support the
president's actions.
They don't believe that
undocumented immigrants who are
here, who are contributing to
our
economy, who have children, who
have deep ties to our country
should be deported either.
So there is support for the
president's action, as well as
Congress. We -- ultimately, we
need Congress to act so that a
future president can sign that
law into -- sign an immigration
reform bill into law.
GWEN IFILL: Marielena Hincapie
of the National Immigration Law
Center and Josh Blackman of
the South Texas College of
law, thank you both very much.
JOSH BLACKMAN: Thank
you very much.
MARIELENA HINCAPIE: Thank
you. Thank you, Gwen.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Playing daily
fantasy sports has become a
multibillion-dollar business,
and one increasingly connected
with professional sports leagues
who either have a sponsorship
deal with the biggest companies
or are investors in these
companies. But it's an industry
under
widening scrutiny.
The latest front: New York
state's attorney general has
said they shouldn't be allowed
to operate in New York since
they constitute illegal
gambling.
William Brangham fills
in the picture.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: The two main
companies at the center of this
latest controversy, DraftKings
and FanDuel, have tens of
millions of players on their
sites everyday.
Here's how they work. This is
from one of their promotional
videos. You pay some money
to play fantasy football or
baseball or whatever sport you
want. You then create a lineup
of
actual professional players to
be part of your fantasy team. If
your players do better
statistically on a given day
than the other people in your
league, you win money. Or if
they don't, you lose.
The sites have said they're just
games of online skill, and not
actual gambling. But,
yesterday, New York Attorney
General Eric Schneiderman called
foul, saying -- quote
-- "It is clear that DraftKings
and FanDuel are the leaders of a
massive, multibillion-dollar
scheme intended to evade the law
and fleece sports fans across
the country."
Joining me now to help unpack
these developments is Devlin
Barrett, who's been covering
this
for The Wall Street Journal.
So, how big a deal is this,
the attorney general's move?
DEVLIN BARRETT, The Wall Street
Journal: It's a really big deal.
One, it's 10 percent of their
customer base is based in New
York state. But, actually...
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Ten percent of
all these players are in New
York itself?
DEVLIN BARRETT: That's according
to some of the internal figures,
as best as we can tell.
The larger problem, though, is
that if what the New York
attorney general says influences
or lines up with the thinking of
the federal officials who are
looking at this, these
companies,
this industry is in a world of
trouble, because what the
attorney general says in his
letter
is that this thing is
illegal in multiple ways.
And the Justice Department is
looking at that. Now, the New
York decision is important for
New York, and it's important,
obviously, for the company's
reputations, but if the U.S.
attorney for the Southern
District of New York, who's a
federal official, ends up
agreeing
with even half of what's in that
letter, these industries are in
huge -- this industry has
a huge problem.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Let's talk a
little bit about what the
attorney general is arguing.
In one of his complaints against
these companies, he is saying,
you're basically a wolf in
sheep's
clothing. You pretend you're not
a gambling site, but you are a
gambling site.
In your analysis, is
that a fair accusation?
DEVLIN BARRETT: Well, I think
the biggest analogy you could
draw is to online poker.
And if you look at the screens
from what online poker used to
be, back when it was allowed
and done in the United States on
a regular basis, the screens
actually look quite similar.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: You mean the
actual Web sites that you look
at?
DEVLIN BARRETT: Actual Web sites
that you look at, and the lines
of betting options
that you have, do I want to make
this bet, do I want to make that
bet?
The other thing that the
attorney general lays out which
is an interesting argument
and is really the crux of this
debate is, this is instant
gratification gambling, meaning
traditional fantasy sports was
always about you play for a
whole season? At the end of
the season, someone wins the
office pool and they have a
party and everyone smiles and
makes jokes about each other.
Daily fantasy sports essentially
blows up that model and says you
can bet today on stuff
that happens today and you can
get paid today. A lot of what
the New York officials are
saying
is, look, this is instant
gratification, which is
gambling, and that's a problem.
That's
why in some ways it's a huge
threat to the companies far
beyond the borders of New York
state.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: These
companies have vehemently
rejected these accusations. They
said in a
call today that they made with
reporters that they are going to
going to fight this in court.
They have hired
lawyers to do this.
Yesterday, in a statement,
FanDuel said -- quote --
"Fantasy sports is a game of
skill and
legal under New York state law.
This is a politician telling
hundreds of thousands of
New Yorkers that they are not
allowed to play a game that they
love and share with friends,
family, co-workers and
players across the country."
You hear this a lot from these
companies, that these are games
of skill and not chance.
DEVLIN BARRETT: Right.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: Why do those
particular words matter? Do they
keep coming up?
DEVLIN BARRETT: They matter
because under the federal law,
if it's a game of skill,
it may not be illegal. If it's a
game of chance, it almost
certainly is illegal.
Now, that argument also failed
in the online poker case that
happened about four years
ago. So, just because they say
it's so doesn't make it so. I
think the other issue you have
to look at when you look at
their defense is, if they can't
beat the New York attorney
general on this, if that legal
analysis holds, you know, that
could threaten their entire
business model.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: How much money
are we really talking about
here? How much is circulating
in these fantasy game markets?
DEVLIN BARRETT: It's essentially
billions of dollars.
Both of these companies are
valued at more than $1 billion,
and their growth rate is
astronomical. You can argue
about their valuations. I think
that's kind of a fun exercise at
times,
especially -- I think their
valuations might change quite a
bit after what's happened in
the last 24 hours.
But it's essentially billions of
dollars moving around. And for
that reason, it's drawn an
incredible amount of scrutiny
just recently from regulators
and law enforcement officials.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: And how much
of this is about the involvement
of the major leagues?
Some of the major, the biggest
names in sports, professional
leagues, are directly involved
in a financial way
with these sites.
DEVLIN BARRETT: That's right.
They have a degree of
institutional buy-in for daily
fantasy sports that you haven't
seen before, or at least to this
degree, with other forms of
gaming like online poker. It
is a huge advantage for them.
But I don't think that just the
institutional support
alone can protect them if, for
example, the Justice Department
decides that the New York
attorney general is right.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: One of the
other arguments the attorney
general made was that these
firms
are fleecing their customers.
What is he arguing there?
DEVLIN BARRETT: That's one of
the most interesting debates
about daily fantasy sports,
which
is, is it fair?
And one of the things he says in
the letter is the vast majority
of the winnings go to
less than 1 percent of the
players. One of the things that
we haven't really had a good
explanation of, as all the sort
of regulatory attention has come
to them, is, who are the
whales? Whales is a term
for the big winners.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM:
Right, the big fish.
DEVLIN BARRETT: Who are they?
Are they company employees? If
there's a significant number
of company employees among the
whales, that raises huge issues
about not only is it legal,
but is it actually fair, or is
this just a scam on some level
for the smart, sharp people
to take advantage
of the less sharp?
Now, that's obviously a dynamic
that you have in poker as well.
It's another point where
the online poker analogy comes
in. But I think that's one of
the great unanswered questions
so far. The attorney general
seems to be signaling that, from
what he's seen, it's not fair.
WILLIAM BRANGHAM: All
right. Fascinating stuff.
Devlin Barrett from The Wall
Street Journal, thank you very
much.
DEVLIN BARRETT: Thank you.
GWEN IFILL: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour": why
more young women are living with
their parents; Kareem
Abdul-Jabbar pens the untold
story of Mycroft Holmes; and a
hero's welcome for the children
of fallen soldiers.
EVONNE WILLIAMS, Organizer: We
see the veterans that come back
that are wounded, but we don't
really see the widows and the
children. And I think it gives
people a chance to say, we're
here for you.
GWEN IFILL: Since January 2013,
journalist Paul Salopek has
tracked ancient man's path
out of Africa, what he calls
the Out of Eden Walk.
Last night, Hari Sreenivasan
showed you the project that
Salopek will spend much of the
next decade completing.
Tonight, Hari walks in the
footsteps with Paul of early man
to one point of real meaning
on his global trek.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The
fog-shrouded fields and rolling
hills of Southern Georgia are
much more than a waypoint for
Paul Salopek. We were nearing
the ancient city and
archaeological
site of Dmanisi.
PAUL SALOPEK, Fellow, National
Geographic: So, Dmanisi is
finally in sight and this is
probably one of the most
important human migration sites
outside of Africa proper.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Salopek is
following the path humans took
after the Ice Age, 70,000
to 100,000 years ago. But here
in Dmanisi, that path is much
older.
Along these green and jagged
river gorges, we have walked in
one form or another for
nearly two million years. The
history here is stacked high,
part of what Salopek calls
the layer cake effect of the
Caucasus. With a happy dog
welcoming us, we passed what was
likely an outer defensive tower
of the 1,400-year-old city of
Dmanisi.
This has been a crossroads
for a long time.
PAUL SALOPEK: From day one. And
pretty much everybody invaded
it.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And was
this a trading route?
PAUL SALOPEK: This was a silk
road trading route city, a big
shining city on the hill,
very rich, until the Mongols
came and plundered it. And then
they were here a few hundred
years until the Georgians and
Armenians pushed them out.
HARI SREENIVASAN: It's an
archaeological gold mine. With
the summer digging season
finished,
we arrived at a sort of bunk
house for archaeologists to rest
for the night.
PAUL SALOPEK: If we did, by some
miracle, get a clear sky, it
really will change everything
completely.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The next
morning, a miracle had indeed
swept away the fog. Within what
you're seeing is nearly two
million years of history, the
medieval city, whose walls
still stand, built on top of a
Bronze Age settlement that's
5,000 years old, and still
beneath that, the 1.8
million-year-old remains of one
of modern human's earliest
ancestors.
Salopek, Dima Bit-Suleiman, his
walking partner in Georgia, and
I were joined by the director
of Georgia's National Museum,
David Lordkipanidze, for the
walk up to the hilltop dig site.
DAVID LORDKIPANIDZE, Director,
Georgia National Museum: What we
found here, it changed our
understanding about early traces
of human evolution, about first
dispersal of our ancestors.
And, also, it's completely
changed our views about who,
when left Africa and how they
were
looking and what they
were doing also.
HARI SREENIVASAN: What
were these guys doing?
DAVID LORDKIPANIDZE: These
guys were enjoying life here.
(LAUGHTER)
HARI SREENIVASAN: Enjoying life
in a place much more lush and
temperate 1.8 million years
ago. Thanks to bones discovered
here at the same latitude as
Boston, we know this was
a land with game-like elephant,
giraffe, and rhinoceros, but
also large predators like
saber-toothed cats.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, when they
come here, are they the predator
or are they the prey?
DAVID LORDKIPANIDZE: I think
they were both. On the bones of
the humans, you can sometimes
see cut marks, so it shows that
they were prey. But, you see,
it's lucky for archaeology,
right?
(LAUGHTER)
HARI SREENIVASAN: Bad day
for them, good day for you.
DAVID LORDKIPANIDZE:
Yes. We are very lucky.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And that lucky
day came 10 years ago, with the
discovery of a skull,
the last of five found that is
the remarkably complete skull of
an ancient ancestor of modern
man.
So this is it?
David took us to the National
Museum in the capital city of
Tbilisi to see the actual
skulls kept in a vault and
handled with kid gloves, because
they are indeed national
treasures.
This is how old?
DAVID LORDKIPANIDZE: This
is 1.8 million years old.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The brain
capacity was about 40 percent of
ours, and they stood about 5
feet tall. The skull has
features of three different
species, a possible snapshot in
time of evolution. An older
adult, probably a male, was
among those found. And the
toothless,
worn jawbone might tell us
more than just size and age.
DAVID LORDKIPANIDZE: It means it
was weak individual who could
survive only with help
of others. And I think that
Dmanisi shows also the first
traces of compassions and
solidarity
in Homo erectus.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, Homo
erectus, even though they had a
brain that was a third our size,
they still cared for somebody
other than themselves.
DAVID LORDKIPANIDZE: One of the
human characters could be taking
on others.
HARI SREENIVASAN:
Taking care of others.
How did these guys get to
Dmanisi? Why did they leave?
DAVID LORDKIPANIDZE: See, I
don't think there was just one
reason of it. They were able
to do it. They wanted to do it.
I think main human character is
the curiosity.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So this is the
same instinct that we have
today, to look around the next
corner, over the next hill.
DAVID LORDKIPANIDZE:
Paul is doing the same.
HARI SREENIVASAN:
As these guys did.
DAVID LORDKIPANIDZE: As these
guys did. Paul is follower of
Homo erectus.
(LAUGHTER)
HARI SREENIVASAN: And, in a
sense, so are we all. But for
Salopek, their ancient journey
to this point has
particular meaning.
PAUL SALOPEK: These are the
first pioneer wanderers. These
are kind of like the dawn
people who first left our
collective home in Africa. So
being here is a terrific echo
of my own project. I'm following
people who came much later, but
these were the trailblazers.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Only 10
percent of this sprawling site
has been excavated. That layered
effect was evident everywhere.
So, where are you taking me?
In a deep pit, David showed us
where an ancient wine maker had
sunk his vat.
DAVID LORDKIPANIDZE: You can
see 1.8 million years old.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The bone
is 1.8 million years old.
And, in the process, that person
had tossed aside some of the
much older bones.
This wine jar is how old?
DAVID LORDKIPANIDZE:
It's a 1,000 years old.
HARI SREENIVASAN: You know,
finding a 1,000-year wine jar
would be kind of a big deal for
anybody
else.
DAVID LORDKIPANIDZE: Not
for a paleontologist.
(LAUGHTER)
HARI SREENIVASAN: But there are
few better places for a writer
gauging the crosscurrents
of history. So, with sunset not
far off, Paul and I walked to
the top of the citadel that
has stood here for 1,000 years,
a relative blink of an eye
geologically speaking, the
majesty of this place clear,
spread out before us, and
perhaps a key to its fraught and
important
past.
So, why is this place
such a crossroads?
PAUL SALOPEK: Well, it's an
antique bridge between Asia and
Europe and has been for
millennia.
And there has been migration
routes through here going back
before memory.
The silk road passes through
here. But it also is the
epicenter where three major
empires
meet. And they have always
contested this area. From the
south, the Persians, from the
West, the Ottoman Empire, which
is today Turkey, and from the
north, more recently, Russia.
They have overlapped and
contested and fought over this
corner of the world for
centuries.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So, if they
have lived here, they have also
died here.
PAUL SALOPEK: A lot of people
have died here over the years. I
think we're standing on
one of the oldest
boneyards in the world.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Atop the
boneyard in Dmanisi, Georgia,
I'm Hari Sreenivasan for the
"PBS
NewsHour."
GWEN IFILL: Paul Salopek has
continued walking since Hari
caught up with him in Georgia.
He's now crossed
into Azerbaijan.
Salopek's work is supported in
part by the Pulitzer Center for
Crisis Reporting, which
also partners with
the "NewsHour."
For more on Salopek's walk,
including some of Hari's photos
and thoughts, head online
to our site at PBS.org/NewsHour.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Parents and
plenty of 20- and 30-somethings
are well aware that many young
adults move back home these
days after they finish school.
But a new analysis of census
data out today from the Pew
Research Center underlines the
extent to which this is
happening. It finds that 36
percent of women between the
ages
of 18 and 34 are living at home
with parents or relatives.
That's higher than at any time
since 1940. An earlier analysis
also found that nearly 43
percent of young men lived
in a similar
arrangement last year.
Let's break down some of these
findings with Richard Fry. He
wrote today's analysis for
Pew. And Gillian White, she is
with "The Atlantic" and writes
frequently about the lives of
millennials.
And we welcome you
both to the program.
So, Richard Fry, 36 percent,
more than 36 percent, the
biggest percentage we have seen
since the Great Depression,
what's behind this?
RICHARD FRY, Pew Research
Center: I would then point to
sort of three factors sort of
through the long-run sweep.
It's -- the low point was about
1960, where about 24 percent. So
it's been on the rise
slowly, markedly picked up in
the new century. Three factors.
Number one, young adults are
much less likely to be married
than was the case 50, 60 years
ago.
When young couples get married,
they don't live with their
parents. So that delayed
marriage
has sort of reduced the
incentive to leave the nest.
Secondly, particularly among
young
women, many more of them are
college students. College
enrollment by young women has
gone
up about five-fold since 1960.
College students, if you think
about community college
students, students going to
local
universities, much more likely
to be living at home. And then,
finally, particularly since
the 1970s, young adults have
become more racially and
ethnically diverse as a result
of increased
immigration.
What we know is that young
adults from minority backgrounds
are more likely to live with
parents
than white young adults. And so
as young adults have become more
diverse, more of them are
living at home.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Family patterns,
more multigenerational
households.
And just quickly, for young
men, some of the same reasons?
RICHARD FRY: Yes, yes. And they
-- young men have followed a
very similar trend.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, let me --
before I turned to you, Gillian
White, let me -- we put out
a call out on social media today
asking young people, if you're
living at home with family
or relatives, tell us about the
factors that led you to do this.
And here are two quick comments,
one from Facebook. Now, this
comes from a woman named
Janis Smith. She says: "My
college-educated 30-year-old
daughter lives at home with her
parents because her public
school salary is too low for her
to fully support herself and
her 1-year-old son."
And then from Twitter, we got
this comment from Steffanie
Ybanez. She tweeted: "I'm 25,
living at home, still in
college, plan to stay at home
after graduation to save money
and pay off loans."
So, Angela -- I mean, so,
Gillian -- I'm sorry -- do these
sound like common reasons?
You're
hearing -- you have been
reporting on this generation for
some time.
GILLIAN WHITE, "The
Atlantic": Yes.
I think these two comments
really illustrate a lot that we
hear when it comes to finance
and economics and why people are
staying at home. The first piece
is that wages have not
seen a ton of growth, especially
for young people, since the end
of the recession. The
economy is getting better, but
wages haven't really
skyrocketed.
So, if you still feel like you
might have a difficult time
paying rent, paying utilities,
paying for all these other
things, it might feel safer to
just go ahead and stay home.
In addition to that, we know
that student loan debt loads are
rising, so a lot of people
are saying, until I can get a
handle on my finances, until I
can pay down these debts,
maybe I should just stay at home
with my parents, where I can
either pay a nominal amount or
pay nothing and really
catch up on my finances.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And what about,
Richard Fry, in your looking at
the data, does it back
this up? Because the economy, if
you step back and look at the
economics, it's supposed
to have gotten better.
RICHARD FRY: Yes.
I did a report about three
months ago where I very much
just sort of focused on
recently,
since the great recession, and
what's been happening. And from
2007 to 2010, when the
economy was sinking, more young
adults lived at home. The
expectation -- and it was my
expectation and others'
expectations -- that after 2010,
as the job market started to
improve
and unemployment rates came
down, that young adults would
start leaving the nest.
Young adult employment rates
have come down. More of them do
have jobs. There is even some
evidence that their earnings are
starting to rise, at least a
little bit. And yet more
of them are living at home than
was the case five years ago.
And so it's not altogether clear
how much the job market and
what's going on in the
job market for young
adults is driving this.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, Gillian
White, in your reporting -- and,
again, you have been looking
at this for some time -- what
do you think is going on here?
GILLIAN WHITE: I mean, I
think it's two pieces.
I think, even if things get
better, I think people really
have it in their heads,
especially
young people, that finances are
a problem, that maybe jobs
aren't as secure as they once
were. So they are a little
hesitant to maybe move out on
their own in case something
happens.
I think, other than that -- and
this is anecdotal largely, but
it could be that cultural norms
have changed. A few years ago, a
few decades ago, having a
30-year-old who lived at home
might have raised some eyebrows,
but now not as much, because we
have that excuse of the
great recession, we have that
excuse of student loan debt, we
have that excuse of the economy.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And I did some
reporting on millennials eight
or nine years ago, and at
that point, and this was the --
this cohort, but younger, and
what we found then is, they
were closer to their parents
than any young generation had
been in history.
So, are you picking up, Gillian,
any of that in what you're...
(CROSSTALK)
GILLIAN WHITE: Yes, absolutely.
I think the feeling of a
cultural shift occurs both for
millennials and for their boomer
parents, where a lot of those
parents aren't really trying to
push them out. They are happy
to have them home. They are
happy to kind of feel young and
have somebody around to
teach them about new technology,
and kids aren't feeling as
alienated from their parents.
So the idea of staying home with
them doesn't feel as awful.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Richard Fry,
looking -- I know how this is --
it's hard to project into the
future, but can you see any
patterns in the past when
something like this has
happened?
How long does it take before it
shifts, or does it shift? I
mean, could this be the way
it's going to be?
RICHARD FRY: I think that there
is some sense that this may be,
in some ways, a new normal.
And what I mean by that is, we
know, for example, that the
racial ethnic diversification is
likely to continue, OK? We also
know that the job market cannot
get a whole lot better
than sort of where we're at. I
mean, the national unemployment
rate is now down to 5 percent.
So if you think it's all about
the job market, it's not clear
that the job market can get
a whole lot better. No one
really knows. But I do think
that a return to the levels of
the early '60s is probably not
in the cards anytime soon.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The new normal.
All right, we are going to get
used to this.
Richard Fry, Gillian
White, thank you.
GILLIAN WHITE: Thanks.
GWEN IFILL: He is the elusive
older brother, who even Sherlock
Holmes claimed was smarter
than he.
"Mycroft Holmes" is the title of
the latest addition to the
"NewsHour" Bookshelf. Its
co-author is former basketball
great Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, an
Arthur Conan Doyle devotee
who says he applied Holmesian
deduction and reasoning while he
was playing pro ball.
He recently talked with Jeffrey
Brown here in Washington.
JEFFREY BROWN: Kareem
Abdul-Jabbar, welcome to you.
KAREEM ABDUL-JABBAR, Author,
"Mycroft Holmes": Well, thank
you so much.
JEFFREY BROWN: It's interesting.
Reading this book, you're taking
one fiction, right, the
Sherlock Holmes books, and
creating another, a new one.
KAREEM ABDUL-JABBAR: Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: Tell me how you
thought about it. What you were
doing?
KAREEM ABDUL-JABBAR: Mycroft has
never been really explored as a
subject.
And he's the one person in all
of these stories that is the
closest to Sherlock. So I was
just curious about him.
JEFFREY BROWN: He's the older
and even by Sherlock's terms the
smarter brother. Right?
KAREEM ABDUL-JABBAR: The
smarter brother, yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: But we don't
know that much about him.
You had fun filling
in the character.
KAREEM ABDUL-JABBAR: Filling in
his backstory and how he got to
be who he was, because by
the time he's in the Sherlock
Holmes stories, he's
middle-aged, overweight, and
just really
has withdrawn from the world.
He only goes to his offices, his
club and his apartment. And he
doesn't go any other
place. We wanted to explain how
he got to be like that, because,
probably, as a younger
man, he probably had a
much different life.
JEFFREY BROWN: In filling in the
story, though, you get to look
at a lot of bigger issues,
because you're seeing Britain
as a colonial power.
KAREEM ABDUL-JABBAR: Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: You're taking us
to Trinidad. The Dr. Watson
character is a black man, so
you're taking this into racial
issues. Slavery is in the story.
KAREEM ABDUL-JABBAR: And just
what it was like in England
after slavery has been
abolished,
and how people relate to the
colonies, because every time you
see Victorian England depicted,
they only look at London.
Well, London was attached to all
of its colonies, so that
attachment really hasn't been
explored.
JEFFREY BROWN: What explains the
fascination with Sherlock Holmes
that continues, the books,
the movies, the popular PBS
television, and now you? What
explains that?
KAREEM ABDUL-JABBAR: People want
to see crime detection done in a
way where we get it right.
There's too many times...
JEFFREY BROWN: Where
we get it right?
KAREEM ABDUL-JABBAR: Where we
get it correct. We identify the
bad guys and either incarcerate
and punish them or get
them out of the picture.
And we want the innocent people
to go free. And Sherlock is the
only person that gets
it right every time.
(LAUGHTER)
KAREEM ABDUL-JABBAR: So, I think
we all want a Sherlock in our
lives in terms of the way
that our police and crime
detection people work, that they
get it right, and not --
understand
who the criminals are and
don't punish the innocent.
JEFFREY BROWN: And he does it,
of course, through mental
deduction.
KAREEM ABDUL-JABBAR: Yes,
through deduction and a careful
analysis of the facts.
And Sherlock is a genius,
literally, at understanding the
facts, and relating them in a
way that
he figures out what's going on.
JEFFREY BROWN: What about your
own fascination with Sherlock
Holmes? There is a fascinating
author's note at the end of the
novel in which you say that you
first read the Sherlock Holmes
stories early in your basketball
career and adapted Holmes'
powers of observation to the
game in order to gain an
edge over your opponents.
Explain that to me.
KAREEM ABDUL-JABBAR: By being
able to see into everything in
depth, Sherlock always
has an advantage over
the people around him.
So I always use this example. It
is the best one I have. We used
to play the Detroit Pistons.
They had a very great center.
His name is Bob Lanier. But he
had a bad habit. He was
a nicotine fiend. And at
halftime, he had -- he smoked
cigarettes.
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes.
KAREEM ABDUL-JABBAR: And I
overheard the ball boys talking
about it one time. They said
they don't like going into the
shower room because Bob had been
in there smoking cigarettes.
So I realized that, if Bob
smoked cigarettes at halftime,
if I could get him to run a lot
in the second half,
he would be in pain.
(LAUGHTER)
JEFFREY BROWN: That was
your Sherlock moment.
KAREEM ABDUL-JABBAR: Yes, and I
would gain an advantage at that
point.
So, things like that, I would
just try to pay attention to
what's going on and use my
powers of observation. But, you
know, Sherlock is much more in
depth because of all the
different
facts that he can correlate.
He's into so many arcane bits of
knowledge that help him
see things. I always describe it
as Sherlock sees in technicolor
and we see everything
in black and white.
JEFFREY BROWN: I saw you play so
many times. I saw you destroy my
team, the Celtics, many
times.
(LAUGHTER)
JEFFREY BROWN: I never imagined
that Sherlock was -- Sherlock
Holmes was somehow playing
into all that.
KAREEM ABDUL-JABBAR: Well, just
for anyone who has to figure out
things, if they read
Arthur Conan Doyle, they will
get an idea about how keen your
powers of observation
can be.
JEFFREY BROWN: You are
publishing books. You're writing
a column for "TIME" magazine.
There's
a documentary coming out.
You also, earlier this year, had
-- it was quadruple coronary
bypass surgery. Right?
KAREEM ABDUL-JABBAR:
Yes, scary time.
JEFFREY BROWN: Scary time.
KAREEM ABDUL-JABBAR: Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: Sort of a
real brush with mortality.
KAREEM ABDUL-JABBAR: A very
close brush with mortality.
And I had massive blockages that
I wasn't aware of. I only became
aware of it when I
started to exercise one day, and
things didn't feel right inside
my chest, and I knew something
was up. But I still postponed
going to see the cardiologist
for a couple of months.
JEFFREY BROWN: I suppose that's
hard for a man who's been an
athlete all his life and
in good shape, right?
KAREEM ABDUL-JABBAR: My son,
who's a physician, said, geez,
dad, don't worry about it. You
might need a stent, but you're
in good shape, you eat right,
you exercise. It probably won't
be a big deal.
And as soon as I went in for the
angiogram, the doctor said, we
have got to do surgery.
You're scheduled for a quadruple
bypass in two days, which ended
up being on my birthday.
JEFFREY BROWN: Wow.
(LAUGHTER)
KAREEM ABDUL-JABBAR: What a day.
JEFFREY BROWN: Happy
birthday, right. Wow.
KAREEM ABDUL-JABBAR: Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right, Kareem
Abdul-Jabbar, thank you for
talking with us.
KAREEM ABDUL-JABBAR:
It was a pleasure.
JUDY WOODRUFF: On the day when
we recognize the service to our
country by veterans, a
story about those who have lost
a family member due to the
casualties of war.
At the Nebraska-Michigan State
football game this past weekend,
a special tribute was paid
to the family members of the
more than 60 Nebraskans who gave
their lives in the global
war on terror.
From our PBS station in
Nebraska, Dennis Kellogg reports
on one organization's efforts to
support
Gold Star Families who are
still coping with their loss.
DENNIS KELLOGG: Nebraska's
Memorial Stadium is packed with
90,000 fans to watch this
college
football game. In this sea of
red, 55 women and children stand
out, and not just because
of what they're wearing.
They're Gold Star Families.
RHONDA ROBINSON, Widow of Fallen
Soldier: It's a unique group.
Like, I have been told
it's not a group that you want
to be a part of, but you are a
part of because things happen.
DENNIS KELLOGG: Four years ago,
Rhonda Robinson learned her
husband, Josh, had been shot and
killed while on patrol
in Southern Afghanistan.
RHONDA ROBINSON: I think of it
every day, and I think the boys,
too.
DENNIS KELLOGG: Those boys,
9-year-old Kody and 8-year-old
Wyatt, work hard to hold onto
the memories they
have of their dad.
WYATT ROBINSON, Son of Fallen
Soldier: Everybody says I look
like him. I do stuff dirty -- I,
like, get dirty a lot. And
I'm just really rough.
KODY ROBINSON, Son of Fallen
Soldier: When I was younger I
always wished, maybe someday
he will come back. Maybe someday
he will come back. But, like, as
I got older, it started
to get to me. And I started to
realize he's not coming back,
and it's going to be a long
time until we see
each other again.
DENNIS KELLOGG: The football
game was the culmination of the
first-of-its-kind Gold
Star Honor Flight Weekend,
honoring families who lost
someone serving their country
since
9/11.
First, the families were given
the royal treatment, massages,
manicures, and pedicures for the
moms, handmade quilts with
special messages for the kids.
Organizers Bill and Evonne
Williams don't want anyone to
forget the sacrifice of these
soldiers and these families.
Why is it so important
for you to do this?
BILL WILLIAMS, Organizer:
Because every fallen family's
feeling is the same, is that
they're
loved ones are going to be
forgotten. So that's our
mission, is that they not be.
EVONNE WILLIAMS, Organizer: We
see the veterans that come back
that are wounded, but we don't
really see the widows and the
children. And I think it gives
people a chance to say, we're
here for you. Thank you.
DENNIS KELLOGG: As these
families arrive at the Omaha
Airport for their Honor Flight,
hundreds of people line the
terminal to show their support.
WOMAN: I thought it would be
kind of fun. And we have gotten
a couple of hugs already.
(LAUGHTER)
BOY: This is my first
time riding on a plane.
DENNIS KELLOGG: Less than a
half-hour after take-off, they
land in Lincoln, where the
airport is packed with even more
people to greet them, including
Iraq veteran Robert
Kugler. He served with his
brother, who was killed in the
war.
ROBERT KUGLER, U.S. Military
Veteran: I think it's really
important for them to know that
there are people that are still
hurting on -- with our own pain,
but we're still here
to support them, because
we're all in this together.
DENNIS KELLOGG: One of the most
difficult and memorable parts of
the day comes when
the families place a rose next
to photos of their loved ones.
The Williams are creating
similar displays remembering
the fallen from each state.
Wyatt Robinson reads the note
his mom wrote that's posted next
to his dad's photo.
WYATT ROBINSON: "Josh, so proud
of you and thank you for all
your memories. Kody and
Wyatt and me will keep your
story alive. Your wife, Rhonda."
DENNIS KELLOGG: It's just a
short walk from the quiet of the
photo display to the noisy
football stadium. But it's long
enough for these fans to let
these families know that,
on this day, they're cheering
for more than the home team.
Once inside, the families
receive special recognition and
a standing ovation. They wait
for the final notes of the
national anthem. That's when
they release gold balloons, each
carrying a very personal message
they have written to their
soldier, their husband, their
dad.
WYATT ROBINSON: I wrote, "Dear
father, I miss you so much."
KODY ROBINSON: "Miss you. Love
you. Want you. Your son, always,
Kody. XO, XO."
RHONDA ROBINSON: "Your memory
will always live strong through
your little girl. Always
and forever, love, Mama Bear."
CHILD: Hey dad, I love you
and I hope to see you.
CHILD: "I love you dad, and
I know you love me too."
DENNIS KELLOGG: Powerful
messages from the family of
those who made the ultimate
sacrifice.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Dennis Kellogg in Lincoln,
Nebraska.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Tune in later
tonight on "Charlie Rose": model
and actress Gisele Bundchen.
And that's the "NewsHour" for
tonight. I'm Judy Woodruff.
GWEN IFILL: And I'm Gwen Ifill.
Join us online and again here
tomorrow evening. For all of us
here at the "PBS NewsHour,"
thank you, and good night.